# Bounded Model Checking
Bounded model checking (BMC) is a [[Model checking|model checking]] technique which searches for a counterexample in executions whose length is bounded by some integer k. If no bug is found then one increases k until either a bug is found, the problem becomes intractable, or some pre-known upper bound is reached. The BMC problem can be efficiently reduced to a propositional satisfiability problem, and can therefore be solved by [[SAT Solver|SAT]] methods rather than [[Binary Decision Diagrams|BDD]]s. SAT procedures do not suffer from the space explosion problem of BDD-based methods. Modern SAT solvers can handle propositional satisfiability problems with hundreds of thousands of variables or more.

Although [[Symbolic Model Checking]] gained wide spread adoption in the industry the BDD-based technique faced bottlenecks in the amount of memory required for storing and manipulating these representations. The Boolean function representations could grow exponentially based on the state space.

Experiments have shown that BMC can solve many cases that cannot be solved by BDD-based techniques. The converse is also true. Additionally, BMC also has the disadvantage of not being able to prove the absence of errors. **Therefore BMC joins the arsenal of automatic verification tools but does not replace any of them** [1]. 

## References
[1] A. Biere, A. Cimatti, E. M. Clarke, O. Strichman, and Y. Zhu, “Bounded Model Checking,” in _Advances in Computers_, vol. 58, Elsevier, 2003, pp. 117–148. doi: [10.1016/S0065-2458(03)58003-2](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(03)58003-2). #on-Zotero 