# Errors and Exceptions
#python 

Apart from `SyntaxError`, which is related to untenable Python code, the interpreter throws a variety of exceptions as indicators of errors. Some examples include `ZeroDivisionError`, `NameError`, etc. Standard exception names, such as these, in Python, are built-in identifiers, but not reserved keywords. Exceptions usually provide a traceback including the line causing the error, the line number, and the file name which can be useful for debugging.

Exceptions generated by Python can be handled using the `try` and `except` construct. 
```python
try: 
	f = open('myfile.txt')
except OSError as err:
	print("OS error:", err)
except (ValueError, NameError):
	print("An exception")
	raise ValueError("This is also a NameError")
except TypeError as err:
	raise OSError from err
else:
	f.close()
finally:
	...
``` 
- A `try` statement can have more than one `except` clause. Moreover, exceptions can be bundled together as a tuple.
- At most, one handler will be executed which is the first matching `except` clause.
- While writing `exception` clauses, it is best to be as specific as possible so that unexpected exceptions can be propagated on.
- `try...except` has an optional `else` clause which, when used, must be placed after all `except` clauses and is useful for code that must be executed if the `try` clause does not raise an exception.
- The `raise` statement allows an optional `from` clause which is useful when transforming exceptions.
- The `try` statement has another optional clause called `finally` which is used to define clean-up actions that must be executed under all circumstances.
	- Unhandled exceptions, or exceptions raised by the `except` statement are re-raised after the execution of the `finally` statement.
	- If `finally` contains a `break`, `continue`, or `return`, then unhandled exceptions are not re-raised.
	- If the `try` statement has a `break`, `continue`, or `return` statement, the `finally` clause will execute prior to these statements.
	- If both `finally` and `try` contain a return statement, then the return of `finally` will take precedence.